Welcome to the Data Science Hangout. So nice to see you all. Hope everybody's having a
great week. Beautiful here in Boston today. I think it's about 70 degrees. But I'm Rachel
Dempsey. I lead our pro community at Posit. And the Data Science Hangout is our open space
to chat about data science leadership, questions you're facing and getting to hear what's going
on in the world of data across different industries. And so it happens every Thursday, pretty much
every single Thursday, unless it's a holiday. At the same time, same place. So if you're
watching this recording at some point later, on YouTube, you can add it to your calendar
details below. But every week we feature a different data science leader as my co host to
help lead our discussion and answer questions from you all. So together, we're all dedicated
to making this a welcoming environment for everyone. We love hearing from everybody, no
matter your level of experience or area of work. So it is totally okay to just listen in if you
want. But there's also three ways you can jump in and ask questions or provide your own
perspective on certain topics. So you can jump in by raising your hand on Zoom. You can put
questions in the Zoom chat and just put a little star next to it if you want me to read it out
instead. And then we also have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously. And I
think Curtis, you can grab that Slido link and share it in the chat. But I'm so excited to have
Natalie joining us here today. Natalie O'Shea is an analytics consultant at BetterUp. And
Natalie, I'd love to start with having you introduce yourself, introducing yourself and maybe
share a little bit about your work and something you like to do outside of work too.
Sure. Yeah. So as Rachel said, I'm Natalie. Yeah, I'm an analytics consultant at BetterUp. And a
lot of the work that I'm doing right now is focused actually on building a flexible, scalable
reporting system in Shiny. And I'm like fresh on that right now because I just finished recording
my POSIT conference talk. So hopefully maybe going to share some of those learnings there. Yeah,
well, I could go on and on. I have a very long and winding road to where I ended up. So lots of
diversions and different experiences. But yeah, outside of work, I've got my drum kit here. I have
not been practicing as much as I should. But that's kind of a hobby of mine, trying to learn how to
drum as an adult. I never learned a musical instrument when I was growing up. And then I saw
one of my favorite bands at a jazz club. And I was like, alright, I need to learn to drum. So I'm a
very bad drummer. I will also say my birthday was yesterday or the day before. Now I'm forgetting,
but happy birthday. Oh, thank you. I'm bringing it up because a new hobby, though not quite a
hobby, but I got to meet beluga whales at the Shedd Aquarium. And that was pretty, pretty
awesome. So now I'm like, wanting to become a whale trainer as well on the side. We'll see about
that. I love it. That's awesome. Well, you said your favorite band. Who's your favorite band?
It's a band called Lettuce. Yeah, they're like a jazz, funk, hip hop band. They're very fun.
Cool. So while we wait for questions to come in from everyone, I thought it'd be helpful to kind
of put ourselves in the mindset of some of the work that you do at BetterUp. Would you be able to
share maybe a few use or a use case that comes to mind for your data team?
Yeah. So the whole kind of approach I'm building right now, you know, it's a big, I'm a consultant,
though, I'm not really directly consulting as much right now. I'm kind of supporting a lot of our
consultants. But as consultants, they need to be able to kind of customize reports and
presentations for partners. So I built out a system within Shiny to actually populate slide
decks with metrics and visualizations. And I can go on and on about the reasons why I took that
approach. But a big reason why I wanted to have all of that kind of populate in Google slide decks
was so that, you know, we can customize the look and feel and the story of any given company's
data specifically tailored to them. And so yeah, I can go on and on about like why I chose that
approach over something like parameterized reporting, which I'm also a big fan of. But yeah,
that's that's kind of a big, big project of mine right now. And then in addition to that, we know
each other because I've been leading a pretty major procurement effort. And we're in the final
stages now of like installing Posit software. So we're really excited about that. But I learned a
lot about what it takes to kind of build a business case for data science tooling at your
organization, and getting buy in across the org. And it's, you know, it's a pretty major lift to
get get something like that off the ground.
What was one of the biggest lessons learned in building business case?
I would say, like one of the biggest lessons learned in building the business case was have
kind of a flagship project that ties to direct business value. So the project that I'm doing
really helps automate a lot of our processes and makes it a lot faster and easier and more
streamlined to populate these decks with with different data insights. And so that was enough of
a driver kind of showcasing the additional flexibility that open source programming tools
offer us over a more business intelligence tool. That was really a big driver and what led us to
get get this this software. So I'd say having kind of a project that you can directly tie to business
value. That's like a big, big learning from it. And then I'd say another learning from it, I would
never have been able to get this pushed through if I didn't have a supportive manager who really
walked me through the whole process and helped me navigate a lot of the organizational hierarchy
to get something like this off the ground. So kind of finding and developing your community of allies
that are also interested in the same thing as you, you're, you're definitely not going to be able to
do this alone.
Well, thank you so much for that. That's, that's really helpful. And your data team at BetterUp, I
think is a mix of R and Python users. Is that right? Yes. Yeah. And are they, are they going to use this
environment too? Yes. Yeah. So we're, I've really, sorry, my dog is like chewing out my plant, FUD.
What's your dog's name? His name's Gino. If anyone here is a Pittsburgh Penguins fan, that's, that's
where the name is coming from. Yes. Okay. Yeah. So our Python users. So I've been really focused on
developing our, our community at BetterUp. And we've made some big strides in that. The Python
user community tends to be, I'd say more focused on machine learning use cases. So I've had some
interactions with them and I'm using Python right now in my project. But we're definitely, I'd say
the R user community is a little more vibrant. I think I'm not here to start the like R versus
Python debate, but I do find that I think our users are just like kind of tend to be more quirky
and like really excited about R and Python users are like, this is the tool to get the job done.
And Python is a great tool to get the job done. And I think that's, I think that's really, really
And Python is a great tool to get the job done, but I'm just such a fan of our, our community.
But one of the ways in which I kind of reached out to our Python community when we were going
through this procurement process was actually, you know, challenging myself to learn how to use
Vetiver for ML ops and doing that all within VS code and Quarto so that I can kind of showcase,
hey, this isn't just a tool for R users. This really is a tool for Python users as well.
This is how it can be implemented in your own workflow. Obviously with the caveat that I am
by no means a machine learning expert. So, but kind of taking the time to showcase the
capabilities in their tools and language of choice. Yeah, I'd say that was also kind of
a big learning from this, this effort. That's really valuable. Thank you. I just put the link
to the Vetiver package in there if people hadn't heard of it before too. I see Tatsu's calling me
out and saying it's not that nice in Boston. I would say like 65 is close enough to 70 at 3pm.
It's going to be that nice. Maybe not right this second. It is cloudy and it's wet. Well,
I'm thinking of like the time where I get to get outside a little bit later that it's going to be
nicer. That's fair enough. There's potential. So Ishwar, I see you asked a question in the chat
with a little star. It's a little long for me to read. Do you want to read it? Yeah, absolutely.
Okay. I'll just. Yeah. Hey everyone. I'm a data scientist working with Nissan,
based in Franklin, Tennessee. Yeah. Great to know about Natalie. Thank you so much for sharing
your experience and insights about that. I have been working on the same near similar environments.
Like I have been developing a few R Shiny applications and then I have deployed into
our production server that is our Studio Connect. But a lot of time there have been circumstances
that when I have deployed the application, it perfectly runs fine in my local environment.
And then when it is published there, like in the server, it gives issues not so frequently,
but kind of once in a while, right? Maybe once a month or two or three, something like that. So,
and we had to connect, raise the ticket or contact the admins and take their help to resolve the
issue. And then there's a couple of days. And meanwhile, we had to communicate to the business
and hey, app is not running, apologize. So give us a couple of days, those kinds of issues. So
have you worked in the situations ever? And then how did you, like any efforts you have taken to
make the work seem less or non-disturbing from the business standpoint? Yeah, that is a great
question. And I wish I had one of my collaborators here, Harsh, who is on our data ops team.
And so another learning again in that, in the vein of like building a community of allies that
support you in this work, I'm very lucky to have someone who's really focused on the installation
and deployment side of things. Right now we're actually working through that exact issue.
So I'm kind of bouncing around here, but I'm a huge proponent or I've really loved the Rhino
framework for Shiny. I don't know if you've encountered that at all, but one of the nice
things about it is that you use RN for package management. And so there's a lock file, right?
With all of your package sources. So we've been working through some issues with that right now,
because we did get the full posit team suite of products. So now we're just having to make sure
that the lock file is reading from a package manager instead of a binary source. So I'm a
little out of my depth in terms of all the specifics with deployment, but we're definitely
in the stages right now. So we just finished installing Posit and Workbench, and we are
trying to deploy the app at the moment, but we haven't quite finished it out because in addition
to our environment package management stuff that we're working with, there's also the Python
aspect of the app. And so making sure that we have our, whether it's a conda environment or
some sort of pip environment, something for the Python environment. So yeah, we're just ironing
out some of those deployment issues, but definitely a very common problem. I would say,
I can't quite speak to all of the technical aspects of that deployment, but on the more
human side of things, one approach that we've taken with how we're deploying this app out to
our organization is starting with our more internal team, and then slowly ramping it out
so that we don't just open the floodgates to everyone, and then are putting out fires,
but taking a more slow approach so that people know, hey, we're in the early stages of deploying
this, we're still ironing out the kinks. I do know that our data ops engineer is really focused
on making sure that we employ a infrastructure as code approach to how we're deploying things. So
anywhere and everywhere that we can codify things in Kubernetes, we are. So there's just a lot of
moving parts to deploying an app to production, even if it's not partner facing production,
but just internal use. And I think one of the big, most important things about deploying a shiny app
like this is you want people to trust it. So I think taking the time and really building in some
buffer so that you know that the app is going to be load tested and reliable, all of these things
before it goes out to people, is a good practice so that you don't deteriorate trust in your data
products. Yeah, absolutely. I agree. And then quite frankly, our team, from the developer standpoint,
like from data scientists and data analysts standpoint, whenever there was some issues
in the applications, we have directly reached out to admin, and he handles from the package
manager standpoint, and then from the maintenance standpoint in the production.
But yeah, I think that's a good suggestion. I should probably discuss with him sometime and
then, you know, get the proper package managers or maybe right now that you included. Yeah.
I see, Catherine, you had some thoughts on this topic, too, in the chat. And sorry if I'm putting
you on the spot here. No, that's OK. Just mentioning, you know, we use the Posit products
and get back deployment. So with from our version control repository, my team kind of has a workflow
where we do like a dev deployment. So we have our master deployment and that kind of sits there.
And we also have a get back deployment from our developed branch. So any changes that we make can
be tested there, vetted out before it goes to the version of the app that our customers are using.
And so that can kind of troubleshoot some of those some of those issues where it's like,
oh, you know, I forgot I installed the dev version of a package on my local thing trying to get this
new feature. But you didn't fix your manifest before it goes to the deployment. And so that
would break. And you can find that out from your dev deployments before it ever gets to
that customer interaction interruption. Yeah. And a lot of funny but not funny thing is that
it we perfectly test in the dev and then application is running for about two weeks,
a month or so. And then like all of a sudden, like it crashes in production, like it's trusted.
And then business like literally we make habit to the end consumers that they can wake up in
the morning and first thing they open up, they open up the application report report. And then
all of a sudden, like 10 emails and 10 emails coming in into the inbox page where it's not
working. So those kind of things. So, yeah, I mean, great inverse. Thank you. Yeah. Plus what
Catherine said, having that deployment environment. And then again, I'm just like going to keep
pushing the Rhino framework. I think it's fantastic. There's also some really good
continuous integration features with that. So that when you do merge your development branch
into main, you're having some really good tests being done to make sure that it can run in various
environments. So that's part of the continuous integration is a test that like, does this run
on Mac? Does this run on Linux? Does it work on windows? And as long as all those tests are
passing, it's not a guarantee that there won't ever be something that comes in and kind of
brings it all down. But, you know, building in as many fail safes as possible is always a good
good practice. Yeah, I see. Oh, yeah. Sorry. Oh, no, no, I was just continuous integration
is definitely a new territory, I think, for many, many data scientists.
I wanted to make sure to get over to some of the anonymous questions too. And just remind people,
you can ask questions over there on Slido, as well, if we want to reshare in the chat here.
But one question was, what advice do you have for consulting work? And they said,
I had a brief experience last year, and it was tough because of their data quality issues.
Data quality, that is like the hill that I will die on constantly. Like, I find myself always
making the case that like, I know, we want to build these complex machine learning models,
but like, first and foremost, data quality. And I'm excited for your talk next week,
because I know one of my like, our heroes is Emily Reiter. I'm not sure how to pronounce
her last name. But she's such an inspiration for like things like grouped data checks.
So I think I like living at that intersection between data engineering and data science and
trying to kind of make sure we have reliable data pipelines. Having yet gone into DBT,
but that's definitely something on the agenda. But I think, yeah, data, oh, with consulting.
So data quality and consulting. Yeah, that is a constant struggle. I think,
I think I really do take my role, I'm, again, I'm not as much external consulting,
but I consult internally with our team. So kind of setting expectations of what is possible,
given our current data architecture, and data quality and working closely with like our
analytics engineers to get those data quality tests built in that match the level of granularity
that you're trying to work with. But yeah, that is, that's a constant issue. I feel like there
was something else I was going to respond to with that. And now I'm completely blanking on what,
what it was that I was going to address in terms of the consulting. Maybe I'll remember.
You can tell us when it comes back to you.
Yeah, it'll just be like one of those lightbulb moments. That was it.
Travis, I see you had a question in the chat. Do you want to jump in?
Sure. Hey, I'm curious about the, the sometimes boring side of cloud infrastructure, our admin,
we're kind of struggling with this a little bit right now. Thinking about, you know, we are going
to be hiring a cloud architect soon. And we want that person obviously to land posit products
wherever we go. I don't know anything about Kubernetes. I'm glad other people do. What does
that look like for you all? Do you have a separate team that kind of runs that show?
How often do you interact with them?
Yeah, for sure. Yeah, the same boat. And then thank God for, for like the data engineers that
do love the Kubernetes stuff. I'm like, that's great. I'm so glad you like that. That's,
that's not the world that I want to live in. But I recognize its importance. I will post
a link to the Kubernetes website in the chat if you want to check it out. But yeah,
I'm really excited about that. And I'm also excited about the fact that we're going to
But I recognize its importance. I will plug one of the things that we did to make sure that we
were getting off on the right foot with all of our posit products was we we got, I think three
months of three or six months, I forget of technical account management support. So we have
weekly TAM meetings. And that's kind of where we surface a lot of like, these issues. So if we're
having trouble with a particular deployment, or we're running into package installation issues,
and we're not sure like how to address them, our TAM support team is really
helpful in making sure we get that all set up. I, again, I feel super fortunate.
Again, to the point of like, build your group of allies and like, and make a you know, you're
going to need a community around you to build this stuff out. And we were very lucky to get
the support of our DataOps team. So always, you know, we're in an interesting stage in our
business right now, because we are a startup. And you know, we've had, you know, kind of more
quick startup processes. And we're at that stage in development where we're really trying to,
again, take an infrastructure as code approach with how we build out stuff. So our DataOps squad
is pretty new. But I'm a, I'm an anthropologist by training. So I'm all about relationships.
So build those relationships with, with your data engineers, and those kind of folks that do this.
In our organization, I know not every organization does this, but once a quarter, our product team
does a make-a-thon. And this is just an opportunity for us to, you know, team up with other people,
put whatever crazy idea you have out there, and then start to build some of those cross-functional
relationships. So one of the make-a-thons that we did in the past on our team, I proposed like,
okay, we need to start to document and build out some best practices on custom application
development. And that was how I actually built the bridge between our team and our DataOps team.
Because I knew I got to reach out to our DataOps team, like, they can help us kind of define some
of these best practices. And so, yeah, I look for like little informal fun opportunities to
build those relationships, because that make-a-thon then was what got us that support for getting the
support for installation of the products, because I'm not a Linux admin. I could not,
you wouldn't want me to set up these products. So having someone who's enthusiastic about that
makes all the difference. And it's really great, because I think when you develop that relationship,
you can also really make it clear what your needs are. So one of the big needs on our team
was simply, you know, we work from a Snowflake database. Getting that connection set up has
always been a pain for people. And that was one of the reasons why we wanted to get Workbench.
And so now we have a close relationship with our DataOps team. They understand, like,
all of the intricacies of why it's hard for us to connect to the database, or the connection isn't
stable, or like it varies across different machines. And so our engineer is currently
working on like a very streamlined process, so that people don't ever have to think about
setting up their database connection. They can just log in via SSO, and then get into Workbench,
and that's all done for them. So yeah, I'm not that person, but I think I do a decent job of like
finding those people, and making sure that they know that, you know, we appreciate their work,
and we need it desperately. That's awesome. Rachel, will you allow me a follow-up question?
Of course, go ahead. Okay, yeah, well actually, first, that's good info about the TAM,
because we just had a kickoff with Posit's TAM group, and it seems like it'll be really helpful.
So glad to hear that it worked well for you all. We'll pursue that as well. But yeah,
the Workbench, I'm intrigued by this. So I saw Hadley posting something recently about,
like, VS Code and Workbench. Like, what's y'all's experience with Workbench so far?
Like, I didn't know it did all that stuff. And in particular, I'm very curious about
Copilot in VS Code. I know that's not going to be something that's in the RStudio,
like, products natively, for good reasons. But is that something y'all are doing Workbench so far,
so good? Well, I don't know about all the Copilot stuff, so maybe someone from Posit
can talk to that. But yeah, that was, like, kind of how I sold Posit products internally,
because I think, you know, I'm such a fan of the new brand rename to Posit, because I think
previously it was really hard to make a case for an R and Python approach to data science with
RStudio, formerly known as RStudio products, because everyone assumed that was all you could
do. But like I mentioned earlier, when I was kind of going around trying to make the business case
for this tooling, I was like, okay, I know that a lot of our Python users use VS Code and Python,
so, like, I need to show them what a piece of their work would look like in Python and VS Code
on this platform to kind of, you know, fully convince them that it's not just theoretical,
that yes, you can spin up a VS Code instance, but, like, show them, yeah, here's me, little old me
that doesn't ever work in VS Code or Python. Not ever, but rarely. Spinning up, you know,
a machine learning ops kind of system in those products. So, yeah, we're definitely using that.
We haven't really deployed Workbench out to, like, the broader team yet, because, again,
taking that approach of, like, iron out the kinks first before you open it up to a broader group of
people. So, myself and one of my colleagues are kind of working with our data ops team to make
sure that it's a really good experience once we do open the gates for the rest of our organization
and making sure that our Python users are able to use their tools of choice as well as a big part
of that. Awesome, thanks. Thank you. So, something that I wanted to ask you about,
as I know, leading up to this, we were talking a little bit about, like, developing communities of
belonging, and one of the communities you're a part of is Data Science by Design. I just
want to make sure we chatted a little bit about that, too. Oh, my God, yeah. I could talk forever
about this community. So, I, like, hesitate. I'm technically on the leadership committee for Data
Science by Design, which was, like, such an honor to be a part of that. I've been doing that since
their first meeting last, what was that, summer of 2021? The pandemic years all blur together for me,
but yeah, like, this community is just, like, small but mighty. We have a lot of, so I come
from kind of an organizing background as well, so doing a lot of community organizing, and we
have a lot of people in the community organizing world there, and a lot of us are big fans of
Adrienne Marie Brown, and we've kind of talked about who wrote a book that, for me, was, like,
life-changing called Emergent Strategy, and we've really have taken the approach with this community
to focus on, she calls it in Emergent Strategy, a mile, an inch-wide, mile-deep organizing strategy,
something along those lines, which is essentially just, like, prioritizing quality and deep
relationships and, like, a vibrant community over the breadth and the largeness of the community. So,
I think that approach has been amazing. So, yeah, it's such a great group. We really,
we do a lot of, like, creative coding stuff. A lot of the people in our community, actually,
Ijeomaqa and Sharla are going to be doing a workshop on, I think it was at Posit, like,
bringing out your inner artist or something like that. So, we've got a lot of people that are
really interested in the intersections between art, design, data science, community, organizing,
like, it's quite an interesting mix of people, but it all kind of ties together somehow.
Could not recommend that group more. We actually have an anthology coming out pretty soon here.
We released an anthology last year that was, what was the title of it? Now I'm forgetting
because I'm so focused on this new anthology, but the new anthology is Our Environment. So,
we're really talking about environments broadly defined. A lot of environmental data scientists
submitted work there, but we also have, you know, topics on things like community building,
your local environment, things like that. So, yeah, I don't even know quite where to start
with that community, but again, when you find, like, a group of people that's just so supportive,
I think, you know, entering the data science field can be so overwhelming because there's so
many facets to it and things that you feel like you need to be an expert in, and you don't. Like,
everyone has their own expertise. Everyone has their own lived experience that they bring to
the table that is really important for how we build out things. So, I often find that it's not
the most technical person in the room that has the best ideas. It's the person with, like, the most
direct experience with the problem that you're trying to solve. So,
yeah, that's a long-winded approach to say that I absolutely love that community and very proud
to be kind of part of it. That's wonderful. I see a lot of comments here on community, too,
in the chat, and Alan, I think you just asked a question here. I can't read it all right now,
but do you want to jump in? Yeah, maybe I wrote too much. Well, no, I just meant I couldn't,
like, see it that quickly and then know if there was a question, but I think it's in there.
Yeah, there is a question there eventually. I think this is probably applicable beyond Workbench,
but my thinking about it, Natalie, started when you were talking about the sort of gradual
expansion of that as a tool to a broader audience, and what I'm experiencing a lot right now is
tension between, like, portfolio simplification of tools versus autonomy, and I wonder what that
conversation was like for you and your team to consider, like, what should the scope of something
like this be, and what are the various trade-offs of trying to make it, like, broadly useful,
maybe being better supported but having a steeper hill to climb versus being autonomous but maybe
less well supported, and what those conversations were like. Yeah, so I think, you know, we use,
like, Looker a lot internally as our business intelligence tool, so I feel like that's kind
of where, like, a lot of our efforts, right, as an analytics team have been, like, devoted to that,
but, you know, as great as Looker is in its many ways, like, there are always questions that you're
not going to be able to answer with a business intelligence tool, so we've always had people
working in R and Python and doing their own analysis, so we, you know, I think a big part of, like, how
we sold that in terms of, like, the autonomous side of things is people are working internally,
or, like, on their local machines and things like that, and that's obviously not analytics best
practice, so we want to move to a more cloud computing kind of approach, and that also,
in terms of, like, making the business case for things like that, that helps shore up our digital,
like, security, so making the case that we can have a one-stop shop that supports both R and
Python users in a secure cloud environment where they get to use the tools that they like,
you're not, you know, forcing Python users to use RStudio, you're not forcing RStudio users
to use VS Code, like, everyone gets their cake and gets to eat it, too. I'm terrible at, like,
these kind of phrases, but, yeah, I think that was a big, big part of that. I think it remains to be
seen, right? We're kind of have a small, like, developer license group initially because we've
gone, we need to prove that value first, so that's kind of a big part of that, so I think once people
start to see us producing value and centralizing on this tool, that will help us make the case to
expand the developer community on Posit. I'm also, you know, we're in the early stages of developing,
like, there's the app that I'm working on, but a lot of the logic that exists in that app,
we're trying to move into, because it's pulling directly from our database and doing
some standard analyses, we're trying to move that into an internal package, so I think once
there's, like, aligning on the tools, but then there's also aligning on the code and the workflows,
so I think internal package development is a great inroad to not only proving the
tools value, but also aligning people on how we work with data, because here I am going to be,
like, fangirling over Emily Rider again, but she just recently put out a great blog post
that really laid out the differences between SQL R and both Pandas and NumPy in Python and
how they handle nulls differently and how this leads to completely different results sometimes,
so I think it's really important to align on workflows in addition to aligning on tools,
but I think that those tools enable the, like, workflow centralization as well, if that makes
sense. For sure. Yeah, thanks. I really like hearing the sort of stories in this moment of
adoption and then figuring out how to go further and what those cases are like and what those team
processes are like, so, yeah, happy you had success and hopefully there's more in there I
can learn from. Thanks. Yeah, thank you. Thank you. So, a question I remember we used to always
ask this in the beginning, but what is something that you're most excited about in the year ahead
when you think about your data team? Well, I wonder if she's listening to this call,
but we recently, so, one of my, like, my best work friend from a different part of the
organization recently transferred onto our team so that we could work more closely together and
we are building out this internal data processing package and kind of trying to develop some
onboarding materials for Posit, so I feel a little, like, imposter syndrome and being, like, we're
successful with Posit already because we're, like, just at the beginning stages and have so much more
to learn, so I'm most excited about, like, really working with my friend to, like, build out
the onboarding for all of this to build some shared workflows and then to kind of socialize
that more broadly in our organization. I think that will clearly demonstrate the value of, like,
why we invested in these tools, so it gets me excited to think about people actually, like,
using the apps we're developing, people being able to, like, easily access all of the different
reports, like, one of the first projects we're planning on doing once we get all of this, like,
really up and running and all the, like, deployment issues kind of, like, ironed out is building a
central landing page, like, from the Posit, like, curating your data science content or content with
what's the connect widgets package, which I'm so excited. I get really excited about getting people
to be able to share their work more broadly, more seamlessly, so there's so many, like, really
interesting reports and things that people are doing at our organization that often don't
have the kind of reach and impact that they could if we just had a tool so that they could easily,
like, deploy it and just say, like, here's a URL that shows all of the reports that our team has
done on this specific topic, and, like, you can just go through and see, like, all of these
interesting trends and tools that have been developed, so I'm, yeah, I'm very, very excited
about, like, everything that this new tooling will offer us and just, like, building that workflow
that makes things really easy for people. Yeah. That's great. I want to make sure I'm not missing
anybody's question, so feel free to raise your hand here on Zoom or copy back over into the chat.
I don't see too many over on Slido. Well, Jared, I think you had a question earlier about GitHub
Actions. Do you want to jump in? Yeah, can you guys hear me okay? Yes. Yeah, Natalie, I just
had a quick question about your, like, internal checks that you do for your programming, like,
applications, and if you have them in sort of, like, an automatic fashion, or is this something
that you, essentially from the ground up, trying to build in checks as you go along to ensure
consistent, not only consistency, but integrity of the data, so you're not trying to put so many
fires out that it becomes insurmountable, if that makes sense. Oh, yeah, 100%. Yeah, I feel like I'm
just, like, beating the drum of the Rhino framework, but I didn't. I'm still fairly new to continuous
integration. I've done a little bit of, like, CICD stuff with Power BI before this, but this is my
first time deploying a Shiny app with continuous integration, and I did not develop it from
the ground up. That was one of, I really love the Rhino package because it forces you into some
best practices, and that's one of the things that it forces you into. Since deploying the app with
that framework, I have learned a little bit more about GitHub Actions and have modified that
template. You must best practice, Tatsu. Yeah, so, like, for instance, the framework, the way the
GitHub Action is set up, it runs a series of different tests on every push, and I've realized,
oh, my God, like, this is just, like, every time I push a change to the app, it's running these
continuous integration tests, and it's just, like, overwhelming, so I realized, oh, I just need to
change the YAML header, and I can make it so that it's only on pull requests that it runs these
checks, so things like that, so that was kind of, like, a design thing that was built into the
Rhino package that forced me to learn something that I should have been doing the whole time,
which, but, you know, I'm in a weird position now where I'm, like, starting to become, like,
more recognized as, like, a Shiny developer. My organization people are, like, coming to me
for advice, and I always tell them, like, I'm giving you this advice because I've made this
mistake 10 billion times before, and it's painful, so when I'm telling you, like, it's worth learning
Shiny modules, it's because I've built 10 billion Shiny Frankenstein apps that, like,
quickly grow in complexity and then are horrible to debug and all of these things, so, yeah,
that's a long-winded explanation, but, again, plugging the Rhino framework for forcing me to
learn about GitHub Actions, and then the things that I didn't like about the, like, default
settings, that helped me learn about GitHub Actions, because then I needed to learn how to, like,
modify those settings, so I'm running linters, you know, yeah, again, like, setting up some
deployment. I don't even fully understand how it's testing the runs on Linux and R and everything,
or Linux and Mac and all of these different setups, but to the vein of, like, building
relationships, the fact that I had that in my application made the DataOps team take me more
seriously, and they were more willing to support my efforts to get this tooling and to get it built
out, because they saw, oh, you're not just, like, ragtag Shiny apps that, like, can never go anywhere,
you're, like, building in more robust ways, and, therefore, I'm willing to put in the time and
effort to support you, because why would you, you know, spend all this time and effort,
you know, Docker, or not Docker, but, like, putting in, building an entire infrastructure
in Kubernetes if the person that you're trying to help isn't even, like, building something
in a way that can be maintained, so I'm the big proponent of, like, meet your engineers halfway,
and you'll have a lot more success, so where and when possible, you know, really,
really try and demonstrate some robust engineering practices.
Awesome. Anas, I see you have your hand raised. Do you want to jump in?
Yes, thank you. Natalie, so our team has recently expanded. We're not a big team,
about three or four people that use R. Obviously, we're not advanced enough to get into the Shinies,
but just broadly, do you have any tips on the best ways to kind of establish best practices?
We're, again, we're in our infancy. We're more, like, do we store these R scripts in our network
drive or in a SharePoint? Like, just in general, we're trying to come up with some
procedures and standards, and it feels like you've done that before you've been there.
I've been there. I am there. Yeah, it's, I would say, like,
again, the anthropologist in me is coming out, but, like, focus on relationships first,
because inevitably, like, what you define as a best practice on first case, like, you're not
going to be doing that best practice, like, six months, not always, right? Like, there's certain
things that will stay, and, like, teaching your team to, like, use Git branches and merge into
main and, like, those things are going to be pretty stable, but, like, there's other more
thorny questions that are really hard to build best practices around. So, for example, in our
team, we have a lot, we support a lot of different organizations, right, with different data analyses,
and, like, how do we, like, what size of repo, do we put everything into one big GitHub repo,
or do we make a repo for every organization, for every project? Like, it's always in development,
and it's constantly iterating. So, being comfortable with that, I think, is a key part
of developing best practices, because it's never going to be just, like, a set it and forget it
best practice. It's going to be constantly in relationship and, you know, building together
those best practices. I find, like, we run in our users' office hours every two weeks,
and I often don't have an agenda or anything, and it's a great way to just, like, first and foremost
build community, but that's also where people come to say, like, I'm really struggling with this,
like, how do you approach this? And then now we're starting to build those best practices,
and as we build out the whole kind of posit onboarding infrastructure, our hope is that we,
and, like, internal packages, like, I think building that into, like, vignettes, right,
or, like, confluence document, I haven't tried this out yet, but I did see that Quarto is
supporting, like, confluence documentation, which is awesome, because our team uses confluence
pretty significantly, but I, God, I hate anything that's not, like, programmatic.
So, I want to have it as a script in R, and, like, I can automate, or, like, I can get in R
and, like, alter that script, but then, like, send those updates. So, yeah, maybe not the best
answer, but just be comfortable with iterating and, like, make sure that you're always communicating
with each other and building strong relationships. Yeah.
That was wonderful. Thank you. Thank you, Natalie.
I think that focus on relationships first, that might end up being the title.
Greg, I see you have your hand raised. Want to jump in?
Yeah, I was just wondering, you mentioned some of the reporting that you're doing out of Shiny.
So, are you also, in addition to WorkVenture, using Connect?
Yes, yeah. So, the app will be deployed on Connect, and then we do a ton of ad hoc reporting,
which, again, right now is kind of, like, here's a Google spreadsheet with, like, the answers to
your question, or here's, like, at most, like, a PDF of our Markdown report, but hopefully,
once we have, like, the whole infrastructure running, that will all live in a landing page
that's continuously updated. Again, my focus on, like, parameterizing everything, but using the
pins package, right, to, like, add metadata to whatever you're deploying, whether it's a report,
an app, or anything, and then having that all land in a central page. Yeah, I think that's a big,
one of the big benefits of the whole, like, Posit infrastructure.
Infrastructure. Absolutely. We talked about pins last week, I think, right?
Yes. Good to hear. Absolutely. Lots of love for pins. I see, Jared, you had asked a question
on recommendations. You want to jump in? Sure. I think I ask this about every talk,
but any books that you recommend, Natalie, that you have read that would be of use to this group,
I guess. Yeah, I saw Curtis recommended the engineering production grade Shiny apps, so
that is definitely a great one. I find I'm, well, I wouldn't say I'm not a book learner,
like, I've gone through, like, the R packages book and took pretty detailed notes on that,
so all of, like, the, I feel like there's, like, an R canon, which is, like, R for data science,
first and foremost, then you've got, like, advanced R and, you know, R packages and those
things, so those are always, like, great references, but I'm the kind of person that
tends to learn a lot from, like, tutorials and things, so, again, I'm bringing up the Rhino
framework just because I love it so much, and I basically learned that just by going through their
tutorial, and then there's obviously people within the R community that I follow their blogs
and learn a lot from them, so the system I developed for this reporting system is heavily,
so it's, like, built in the Rhino framework, but it borrows heavily from Jiwon Heo, I think is how
you pronounce his last name, but he put out a blog post on using R6 classes and gargoyle triggers to
kind of, like, manage reactivity within your app, and I wanted to make sure that my,
that people weren't, like, accidentally running a ton of database queries, so I built the system
in a way to, like, when someone kind of selects their filters, they select their filters, they
click the action button, it runs a dbplyr query, it saves the results of that to an R6 object that
I then pass around to different modules to build visualizations, run analyses, whatever, and then,
like, populate slide decks by transferring it to the Google API, so there's, like, a whole slew
of things there, yeah. Did I answer your question? I feel like I lost track of your original question
there. Apologies if I... No, that's great. In terms of books, also, if there's anyone
that you follow, like, social media-wise that you feel like has been a big influence on how you've
done your work. Yeah. Essentially helping, you know, the muses and mentors that you feel like you've
gathered or garnered. Yeah, so Emily Rider, big fan, she'll be on here next week.
Maya Gans for Shiny App Development, huge influence, awesome person, too,
who Jiwon Hyo, I really loved his blog post on R6 classes and gargoyle triggers. I thought it was a
really clever approach and completely stole it for my own work, but that's the benefit, right?
Steal like an artist. That was the, that's the name of the talk that Sharla, Ani, Jamaka are doing at
Posit. Trying to think, I'm sure I'm missing other people that are huge influences. I mean,
obviously, like, all the people from Posit, you know, Hadley, but, and then, like, Jenny Bryan,
right? I, the amount of times that I have sent around her thing of, like, if you set, if your
script starts with set working directory, I will come into your office and set your computer on
fire. I use that a lot. So, yeah, so lots of influences. There's just such an amazing community
of R users, and that's what made me want to continue down this whole career path.
I love it. I know we talked a bit about, like, building a business case in the beginning,
and we were just talking about this internally, like, is there a way that I could make, like,
this tool or calculator for people? And I was just wondering, like, in building a business case,
did you actually have to put, like, a monetary value to, like, what you would provide, or, like,
saving money for automations? I don't know. Just curious. Yes, for sure. And I'll answer that. I
just wanted to, someone mentioned, like, integrating design thinking and data science, and I just,
another, like, influence of mine that's, like, a blog post course, whatever person is, Brian O'Neill.
He does a lot of, like, designing human-centered data products. So I'll just plug his work as also
being a really big influence and someone you should check out if you want to build tools that
people actually use, which I hope we all do. But, yeah, for, as far as putting a, like, number on
what we would be offering, we, again, I have the world's best manager. I could not go on about that,
Eddie Boer. He's wonderful and much more business savvy than I am. So he helped set me up with a
team. We did kind of, like, a whole, like, now I'm forgetting, because I'm not the business person,
but we did kind of survey people in terms of, like, how much time are you spending building
a single slide deck? Like, where are all the places that you have to go? Like, on average,
you spend, say, 10 hours building this slide deck. And then, hey, if all of these data points
were populated automatically for you, how much would, how much time would be remaining? So we
kind of used that and then obviously, like, factoring in people's salaries and all these
things and then came up with, like, a rough estimate of the time cost savings that building
this app would have. So, and, you know, and building, oh, this is kind of another, like,
good piece of advice is, like, the app I've built now, like, I don't think anyone would have been
able to see that if I just, like, started with that. Like, building MVEs or MVP, you know, like,
little pieces of the pie. Like, I started off doing parameterized reporting with R Markdown
and people were like, that's amazing. And, but the problem with that is that I can't quite,
you know, people aren't going to have the kind of flexibility on the end. So I'm like, this is
great. This is how we actually, like, populate slide decks with data insights. But if you want
the flexibility to change the branding, alter the wording, all of this stuff, like, this is our next
MVP. And then you just kind of, like, work your way up to, like, now I have a production-grade
Shiny app that does all of this for you. But always kind of, like, building in little chunks
that get you there. That's incredibly helpful. Thank you. I, like, I know that people are doing
this, but I never know, like, exactly how you do it. So that's cool that you, like,
hold everybody and ask how much time they were spending doing something.
These are the fastest hours of the week. So I know we're coming to the end here.
But a question I recently started asking that I really like is, what's the best,
or sorry, not best, what's the piece of advice that comes to mind to you that you've either
given to somebody on your team or that you've received over the course of your career?
Could be the best piece or just whatever comes to mind. I don't think I follow this as much as I
should because I let my enthusiasm get the best of me. But my manager is always giving me the
advice that is very well given, which is under-promise, over-deliver. Like, it's classic
advice, but, like, that is what you need to be doing. So, like, I get so excited about building
the community around stuff that I'm, like, look, guys, this is what I did today. And, like, I want
to grab them and be, like, how can you use it and do all that? But, like, oftentimes it's better to
just, like, put some brakes on and say, like, I'm gonna, like, make sure I get this, like, really
ironed out. I document how I did it. I do, you know, whatever you need so that it's not just, like,
hey, like, watch me program this and, like, build it up. Like, that's fine. I do a lot of
pair programming with people, but if you can kind of, like, get something, like, real nice and
streamlined and, like, professional looking before, like, showing everybody, that's kind of the way to
go. So, under promise, over deliver, best advice that I often don't follow. I feel the exact same.
Our president was just telling me earlier today to focus on a few important things instead of all
of these important things. Let me just double check. I want to check on some of the questions
if I missed anything. So, feel free to put it back into the chat or raise your hand here.
But I think it's so cool that your team does the office hours and you have this community group, too.
And I was just wondering a little bit more about, like, what the office hours look like. So, if
somebody wanted to start that at their team, like, is it virtual? Is it an hour? Yeah, so we do one
hour every two weeks. And we, I think it's hard, like, we've kind of ended up at this right now,
just doing, like, informal gatherings. But, like, I'm there for the hour. Whoever, like,
stops in. If you have any questions, again, just trying to, like, make sure people know that there
are no stupid questions. Like, not being judgmental. Like, if you're, like, struggling
with something that, like, I can spot the issue in two seconds. Not being, like, why don't you
understand this? You don't know how to use the command line. Like, whatever. It doesn't matter.
Hey, we solved a problem together. This was exciting. This was fun. And so, that gets people
to, like, want to come back and bring their questions and all of those things. Right now,
we don't have an agenda. We are wanting to hopefully move, especially, like, now that
we're, like, really starting to iron out all of the installation stuff with Posit. We're hoping
to use those office hours as a time for onboarding people into that system. So, hoping to do, like,
little workshop series on, like, using Git and GitHub within Posit and, you know, how to deploy
something onto Connect. And so, I think that will give us, like, a really nice kind of series of
things to go through. But it can be hard because people have, like, their jobs that they need to
do. And so, building community is just kind of one of those things. I talk to, like, my BetterUp coach
all the time about, like, that's just how I approach my work. No matter whether you pay me
to or not, like, I'm going to try and build a community. Like, that's what I'm going to do.
Yeah. Thank you.
I'd like to jump in because we have an office hours set up as well. And we actually ended up
kind of divorcing the office hours from the how-to's and the onboarding things because we
ended up, you know, the interest in those has kind of a season. And so, we would have, like,
okay, here's what we're going to talk about in this week's, like, our user group as opposed to,
like, our office hours where people are bringing those more ad hoc questions. But definitely,
as we were building up to that, it was just kind of one meeting. And then we found,
okay, we do the office hours once a month and the user group once a month but on opposite every two
weeks kind of thing. So, it's, like, still the two-week timeline but different focus.
Yeah. I think that I might have to take that advice to heart. I like that. Yeah.
Yeah. It's really nice to have. Well, I always think about that because of the Hangouts too.
It is nice having the, like, informal session where anything can come up as well.
Absolutely.
That's great. Well, thank you so much, Natalie, for joining and sharing your experience with us.
If people want to get in touch with you, is LinkedIn the best way or?
Yeah. Yeah. So, you can get a hold of me on LinkedIn. I do still have a Twitter but I
haven't really checked it since the, like, forceful takeover that you all know what I'm
talking about. I haven't been as active on Mastodon but I'm also on there. So, yeah. Happy
to chat. Thank you. Awesome. And I want to make sure I share the data science by design too.
I was going to. I could share these links with the recording too.
Please. Yeah. Definitely check out our new anthology series. It's going to be great.
Awesome. Thank you so much. Have a great rest of the day, everybody. Nice to see you.